Q : 2 What is Normalization?

Ans.

	Normalization is a technique that reduces data redundancy and eliminates undesirable characteristics like Insertion, Update and Deletion . The purpose of Normalisation in SQL is to eliminate redundant (repetitive) data and ensure data is stored logically.

	 Normalization rules divides larger tables into smaller tables and links them using relationships. 

Here is a list of Normal Forms in SQL :

1. 1NF (First Normal Form)
2. 2NF (Second Normal Form)
3. 3NF (Third Normal Form)
4. BCNF (Boyce-Codd Normal Form)
5. 4NF (Fourth Normal Form)
6. 5NF (Fifth Normal Form)
7. 6NF (Sixth Normal Form)
 
1. 1NF (First Normal Form) Rules :

-> Each table cell should contain a single value.
-> Each record needs to be unique.

    What is a KEY in SQL?

	A KEY in SQL is a value used to identify records in a table uniquely. An SQL KEY is a single column or combination of multiple columns used to uniquely identify rows or tuples in the table. SQL Key is used to identify duplicate information, and it also helps establish a relationship between multiple tables in the database.

Note: Columns in a table that are NOT used to identify a record uniquely are called non-key columns.

What is a primary Key?
	A primary is  a single column value used to identify a database record uniquely.

      It has following attributes

	* A primary key cannot be NULL
	* A primary key value must be unique
	* The primary key values shoule rarely be changed
	* The primary key must be given a value when a new 		   record is inserted.

What is Composite Key?

	A composite key is a primary key composed of multiple columns used o identify a record uniquely.

2. 2NF (Second Normal Form) Rules :

-> Rule 1-Be in 1NF
-> Rule 2-Single column primary key that does not functionally dependant on any subset of candidate key relation.

Foreign Key :

* A foreign key can have a different name from its primary key
* It ensures rows in one table have corresponding rows in another
*Unlike the Primary key, they do not have to be unique. Most often they aren’t
*Foreign keys can be null even though primary keys can not

3. 3NF (Third Normal Form) Rules :

-> Rule 1- Be in 2NF
-> Rule 2- Has no transitive functional dependencies

4. BCNF (Boyce-Codd Normal Form)

	Even when a database is in 3rd Normal Form, still there would be anomalies resulted if it has more than one Candidate Key.

	Sometimes is BCNF is also referred as 3.5 Normal Form.

5. 4NF (Fourth Normal Form) Rules :

	If no database table instance contains two or more, independent and multivalued data describing the relevant entity, then it is in 4th Normal Form.

6. 5NF (Fifth Normal Form) Rules :

	A table is in 5th Normal Form only if it is in 4NF and it cannot be decomposed into any number of smaller tables without loss of data.

7. 6NF (Sixth Normal Form) Proposed :

	6th Normal Form is not standardized, yet however, it is being discussed by database experts for some time. Hopefully, we would have a clear & standardized definition for 6th Normal Form in the near future…
